# UIL-API

An API Reimplementation and frontend of the UIL Previous Year Scoring records, as UIL does not expose the API calls utilized by the scoring website to get the information.

This application came to rise in early 2021 as I realized I was unable to access any parsable data from the official UIL website. This "API" effectively reimplements backend PHP server used by the UIL website by crawling the website and obtaining data from calls made by the API. Unfortunately, due to the nature of this software, there is a risk that one day the format of the website.

# Why does this exist
The UIL website is really weird. They seemingly don't have an API, but instead scores are stored on a remote server and an XHTML file is automatically generated by some PHP service on the serverside. This makes accessing the data pretty challenging, because you have to interpret the XHTML given instead.

This "API" interprets the XHTML generated by the remote server and compiles it into a JSONObject. It can currently pull user scores, schools, ranks, and other information that might be of use. The frontend started off very small but has grown into a semi-competent frontend (that i'd reason is better than the official website) with support for calculating odds of winning and calculating scores, alongside generating pie charts and getting statewide and regional wide results. This is the part that I'm working on expanding most.
# Usage
Running the server isn't difficult. Git clone the repository by running this command:
```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Knucklesfan/UilAPI.git
   ```
   cd into the uil-api-js folder: (TODO: Make this the main repo)
   
  ```bash
  cd uil-api-js
  ```
Ensure that you have both nodejs and NPM installed:
- Windows: 

    You can download the latest version of node.js and NPM from the [Node.JS Website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

 - Ubuntu/Debian:
 ```bash
 sudo apt install nodejs npm
```
 - Arch Linux (i use arch btw.)
```bash
pacman -S nodejs npm
```
Inside the cloned folder, install the following packages:
```bash
npm install --save express cheerio
```
Last but not least, run the server:
```bash
node server.js
```
# TODO
The following features are very possible in the near future.

 1. Get scores from multiple years together for everyone or for a specific person
 2. Improve formatting of page
 3. Clean up the ugly code.
